# 0311

- two declaration -> split it out (e.g. `int x, y[10]`)
  
### Translating exp

- arithmetic computation -> only available btw registers (IR)

### Translating stmt

- we have to translate stmts conditionally.
- e.g. store `x` and load `x` -> inefficient. (it doesn't have to store in memory), but don't care: this will be optimized later.
  
### Translating control flows

- `T(if C then A else B)` -> A, B are going to be merged into a block. == continuation
- Recursive function -> one of the task for HW

#### Recursive

- there are some blocks already translated => **committed** block.
  - e.g. if `C` is already translated(=committed block), `A` is **current block** in the previous example (p.g. 42)
- See p.g. 43 animation.

#### Others...

- For loop:
```
   init
    |
   cond
  |    \
body   continuation 
(incr)
```
- from `body` can go to `cond`
- also, in `body` -> `continue;` -> go to `incr` then `cond`
  - body can be composed in multiple blocks
- (NOT IN THIS COURSE) exception -> recursively going up to caller... hoping someone catching the exception
  - compiler... hard to deal with this situation.
  - 20 lines of C++ -> can generate 100s possible cases
    - e.g. `cout`, `cin`
  - `Exceptional C++`

### Translating global/local variables

- global variable -> `@` symbol.
  - reserving pointer to the location. e.g. `@g: int` -> `@g` is type `*int`
  - then we could do load/store instructions..
- local variable -> `%` symbol.
  - declared at the beginning of the function

### Resolving names

- we need to refer to **most recent** declaration: highest layer.
- **Symbol Table**: layers of mapping from name to value
  - Level 0: global
  - Level 1+: local
- See pg 47 animation.
- When translating control flows -> we have to think of resolution as well.
  - -> `enter_scope` & `exit_scope`
