# 0313

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qL_B81xY5js&list=PL5aMzERQ_OZ8RWqn-XiZLXm1IJuaQbXp0&index=18)

## Static Single Assignment

- A **register** should be assigned only once.
  - **memory location** may be stored multiple times.
  - SSA doesn't require anything about memory.
- Why? it makes our life easy, to optimize. -> implement constant propagation very easily.

### KECC

- KECC's IR = SSA, register name is canonically determined by block and instruction.
- if creating new IR register is difficult, create **local variables** in memory (e.g. ternary operations)
  - as true/false block, just store the value at the memory location.
- IRgen is **guaranteed** to produce valid SSA IR program

### How about LOOP?

```c
int i = 0;
while (i < 10) {
    i += 1;
}
```
- while loop... initial definition must be redefined. How to express?
- **phinode**: special register. what is the previous block?
  - statically, all registers are assigned at most once.
  - It is not dynamically single assignment!

## Block arguments

- jump + arguments: `j b7(%a, 42)`
  - for block(`block b7(%x, %y)`), they are renamed as `%b7:p0` and `%b7:p1`
  - `p` stands for phinode register.

## Outro

- How to convert memory locations -> register w/o breaking SSA?: **Mem2Reg**
- How to exploit SSA properties in optimzations -> Constprop, GVN...

---

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_Op82Npn5Y&list=PL5aMzERQ_OZ8RWqn-XiZLXm1IJuaQbXp0&index=18)

## CFG Simplification (HW3)

- `examples/simplify_cfg`: input & output
- cfg optimization

### Constprop

- If see branch but two blocks are exactly same: just replace with simple jump.

```
block b0:
  br undef:i1, b1(), b1()
```

=> 

```
block b0:
  j b1()
```

- also, if condition is always true/false, replace with simple jump.

```
block b0:
  br 1:i1, b1(), b2()
```

=>

```
block b0:
  j b1()
```

- Switch-statement also.

```
block b0:
  switch 42:i32 default b1() [
    2:i32 b1()
    3:i32 b1()
  ]
```

=>

```
block b0:
  j b1()
```

### Empty

- if block is empty, and just return something, replace this.

```
block b1:
  %b1:p0:i32
  j b3()

block b3:
  ret 37:i32
```

=>

```
block b1:
  %b1:p0:i32
  ret 37:i32

block b3:
  ret 37:i32
```

### Merge

- some block just jumping to other blocks. merge the block

```
fun i32 @foo () {
init:
  bid: b0
  allocations: 

block b0:
  j b1(42:i32, 37:i32)

block b1:
  %b1:p0:i32
  %b1:p1:i32
  %b1:i0:i32 = add %b1:p0:i32 %b1:p1:i32
  ret %b1:i0:i32
}
```

=> 

```
fun i32 @foo () {
init:
  bid: b0
  allocations: 

block b0:
  %b0:i0:i32 = add 42:i32 37:i32
  ret %b0:i0:i32
}
```

### Reach

- delete unreachable blocks

### Code

- `src/opt/simplify_cfg.rs`

- `optimize`: return true if it optimized, false otherwise.
- freely implement util functions in `opt_utils.rs`
