# 0508

- mutex vs RWLock
  - RWLock: multiple readers can read the data w/o tampering
    - also multiple read -> very fast b/c of caches
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MESI_protocol
    - four stage of cached data
- modern days -> tendency not to change is important for optimization. (immutability)
- functional programming -> function are values / also immutability (encouraged)
  - closure: environment + function
  - design of FP is not suitable for mutable data; so the designer encourages the immutability
  - also mingles well with the cache, optimization... (in terms of memory access)
- also good for distributed system (e.g. MapReduce programming model)
  - google(Jeff Dean) observed that: streaming data (kv store) into intermediate data(list) and reducing into final data

---

## P98 Overview of Codegen

- instruction selection: `sub` vs `lea` (x86, CISC)
  - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37642256/subtracting-registers-with-an-lea-instruction
  - too many `sub` -> bad for performance, over-saturating into subtraction unit
  - distribute workload to `lea` then

## Phi Elimination

- How to implement(compile) phinode?
  - 1. Naive way: just use same register in the predecessor blocks
  - but it has several issues:

- You are INTENDED to place the update logic on the EDGE, but it's impossible.
- 2. split critical edge as a new block (introducing a new block)
- Swap problem -> copy the args into fresh, virtual registers
  - introducing new registers

- no worry for redundant resources
  - subsequent CFG simplification and deadcode elminiation -> easily remove virtual registers!

---

## Register Allocation

- [five-minute rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five-minute_rule)
  - whether you should put the data: DRAM vs SSD
  - (cf) web page caching (for static page) -> infinite time!!
    - b/c network is a very costly
- CPU registers -> finite registers. (vs. IR has infinite registers)
  - RISC-V: 32 registers at ISA level (ISA Reg)
  - (cf) Physical register (CPU) -> map (ISA reg -> Physical Reg) in CPU
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Register_allocation

### High level idea

- check if enough physical reg (ISA reg)
- not enough -> spill a virtual register to the DRAM (stack)
  - spill: cold!
- assign physical reg to virtual reg.

### With Graph Coloring

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_coloring

- each node: virtual register, edge: interfere
- function call
  - caller/callee-save registers