# 0312

[Lecture Note 3](../lecture-notes/Lec3.pdf)

## Security!!

- communication is the most important, but for modern cryptography -> there no need to two parties. (e.g. authentication...)
- several types of attacks
  - interruption: 중간자가 dest로 가는 걸 막음. attacking on availability
  - interception: 중간자가 dest로 가는 걸 가져감. attacking on confidentiality
    - sniffing
  - modification: 중간자가 가로채서 다른 값을 dest로 보냄. attacking on integrity
  - fabrication: src가 보내지 않고 자신이 dest에게 직접 보냄. attacking on authenticity
- Traffic analysis -> src, dest를 파악 
  - e.g. 금요일 오후 펜타곤에 피자 배달 -> 무슨 일이 있다!?
  - 10 yrs ago some student sends sexual harrassment emails to female prof -> using tor. but intersecting the wireless access history...
- Denial of Service
  - e.g. ebay -> banned login if user failed to login three times
  - e.g.2 -> Tesla, autopilot -> send 레이저 to camera

### Trap-door one-way function

- normal case: hard to find inverse,
- given trapdoor info, easy to find inverse.

## Encryption

- M: message space(element = plaintext), C: ciphertext space, K: key space
- E_e, D_d where e, d \in K
- Encryption, Decryption algorithm is **public**, and key is **unknown**

### Symmetric-key Encryption

- usually e = d, but more exactly -> e -> d and d -> e is easy to compute
- block cipher vs stream cipher
  - stream cipher - use wireless communication
  - wireless -> normally content is the small bits.
  - but in modern cryptography, we mostly use block cipher. and also we can use block cipher as stream cipher.
- Then, how do we deliver the key?
  - not that easy to use... setting up secure channel is too difficult
  - what if someone eavesdrop the communication when sharing key?

### Public-key Encryption

- Diffie - Hellman: new directions in cryptography 
  - suppose Alice and Bob never met before. Can they commuicate securely?
- every party has key pairs.
- we don't need secure channel for communicating public key.
- But what if Eve hijacked and send different public key to Alice?
  - MitM -> man in the middle
  - Public key certificate is needed...!!
    - whose public key this is..?
