# 0324

[Lecture Note 4](../lecture-notes/Lec4.pdf)

- SKE(Symmetric key encryption) is much faster than PKE(Public key encryption)
- PKE -> for key management, and after that, signing a message uses SKE.

## Symmetric Key Encryption in Detail

- **Kerckhoff**'s Principle
  - security should depend **only on** the key
  - No security through obscurity
- Claude Shannon: "The enemy knows the system being used."

### Block Cipher

- first actual encryption algorithm we learn
- Modes of operation -> how do we operate multiple blocks
- Those four modes are proposed by DES(1980s).

| ECB | CBC |
| CFB | OFB |

- ECB
  - same specific bits -> correspond to same bits
  - con: given key K, mapping is persistent -> so we don't use

- CBC
  - same as CFB, one-bit error -> two block modified
  - random access (random read) -> no problem because we only need c_j and c_j-1

- CFB (Cipher Feedback)
  - first random number(IV), then C1 be the next IV
  - c_j -> one-bit flipped -> then decrypting x_j -> error
  - also, x_j+1 will have an error as c_j is modified.
  - but, x_j+2 -> no error.
  - therefore: only two blocks are affected.
  - random access (random read) -> no problem because we only need c_j and c_j-1

- OFB (Output Feedback)
  - random number(IV)
  - encrypt -> generate Output
  - Then XOR output with plaintext -> ciphertext.
  - con: one-bit is flipped, how much error is propagated?
  - also, random access -> have to gain all random numbers up to there.

- for all random write -> all parts should be re-encrypted: difficult problem
- what if a powerpoint saved, and copied, then delete one slide -> file size **increase**

- AES standardized(2000s) -> considered new mode of operation -> CTR
- similar to output feedback, but no feedback.
- parallizable in SW/HW.
- reusing random number(counter) could be dangerous b/c XORing ciphertext -> can lead to know the XORed plaintexts.

## Double DES 

- encrypting twice (key = 56-bit) -> increase security? 
- do they form a group(algebra)? can we find k_3?
- **it does not hold!**
- but we don't use double DES. why?

## Meet-in-the-middle Attack

- is 2^112 work needed?, or less work needed?
- complexity -> `2*2^56`?
- possible ciphertext space : 2^64. so we cannot have 2^112 ciphertext cases
  - A lot of collision: 2^(112-64) = 2^48
- Triple DES -> 이게 뭔지 살펴보자
