# 0514

[Lecture Note 8](../lecture-notes/Lec8.pdf)

## Key Establishment

- remember terms!!
- key authentication: i want to confirm that you have a key really.
- two main attacks
  - pfs (perfect forward secrecy): compromise long-term key -> should not break past session keys.
  - best example: DH
  - known key attack
- point-to-point key update
  - one pass -> new `K' = f(r_A,  r_B)`
    - as two random numbers are secretly exchanged -> we can use.
  - use nonce = challenge-response

### Shamir's no key algorithm

https://asecuritysite.com/encryption/shamirnokey

- using ephemeral values, but can send key K

## Kerberos

- in the military, linux, windows, always use.
- high level
  - client-server architecture: already used in MIT campus
    - (question similar to DH)
  - if I'm MIT stduent, can I access to the servers?
    - all separate keys are too bad
  - every entity in the protocol -> shared (long-term) key with TTP
  - TTP: helps authentication, delivers key (distribution).
  - Alice (client) and Bob (server)
  - they don't have any shared long-term secret.
  - Can A authenticate to B? and then communicate secretly

1. A sends msg to T: that I want to talk with B. (A, B, NA) (NA = random numbers)
2. T sends two token to A: one is encrypted btw shared key B and T, and other is by shared key A T.
   1. A can decrypt the second token. 
   2. small k -> session key btw A and B.
   3. L -> life time.
3. A sends to B with original (first) token and a token that is encrypt with key k 
   1. subkey -> for good purpose.
   2. A proves to B that I was able to compute key k and know key k, timestamp
4. B decrypt first part -> know k, A, L
   1. decrypt the second one.
   2. "Yeah, A is already verified by T!"
   3. sharing secret values each other ->  we can do a lot of things

### Problems

- single point of failure -> T
  - T is in DoS
  - limited scalability -> then add hiereachy.
- what if T compromised: single point of attack

### scalable kerberos

T: AS -> authentiaction server
G: TGS -> Ticket granting server
  - university -> department, hierarchy
  - e.g. Department (Computer science)
  - runs own TGS


1. A says to T: I want to login to CS server.
2. Then go to CS TGS, I want to login CS Web server.

- not solving the whole problems but much better