# 0519

[Lecture Note 8](../lecture-notes/Lec8.pdf)

- beller yacobi -> we can use RSA pke and elgamal because it is cheap
- MTI: authenticated DH
  - x explicit authenticate, but combining long-term key -> implicit
  - small a and b -> long-term private key
- STS -> significantly better [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Station-to-Station_protocol)
  - confirm: other party can compute
  - simplest approach: key confirmation and secrecy

## Some attacks

- Mitm for unauthenticated DH
- Reflection attack
  - destination parameter lacking.
  - E start new session with r_a
  - why alice not know already used r_a?
    - think of syn-flood attacking
    - suppose response is not coming, send manymany challenges (server memory exhaust)
  - Eve can play the role of Alice
- Interleaving attack
  - E start new session with A from random number of B

---

[Lecture Note 9](../lecture-notes/Lec9.pdf)

## ID-based cryptography

- PKE -> main requirement: binding my pubkey and identity
  - can we remove the certificate?
- bilinear map (some mathematical definition)
  - DLP -> finding a with P and aP -> hard
  - Computational Diffie Hellman problem -> `A(g^{x}, g^{y}) -> g^{xy}`
    - `A` stands for an algorithm
  - Decisional " -> `A(g^{x}, g^{y}, g^{c}) -> 1 or 0`
    - 1 for xy = c, 0 for otherwise
  - But for bilinear map -> it is easy to decide whether `ab = c`.
  - bilinear computational DH problem (BDHP)
    - computing is difficult.
- ID based cryptography
  - what is your private key?
  - if there's way for computing private key from one's id -> headache! why not for other party?
  - we need some secret -> trapdoor
  - some god entity can "compute" private key for me.
  - TTP = PKG (private key generator)
    - has secret parameter `s`
  - public param -> public key of PKG.
  - PKG -> compute: `s * H(ID_{alice})`
    - but how do PKG know you are real Alice? -> same problem in Kerberos.
- (cf) Attribute based encryption: what if attribute = id?
  - e.g. match making
  - encrypt regular expression of those attribute
  - Role-based AC(Access control)
  - Dan Boneh's startup (Voltage Security): once popular...
- Bad about Kerberos (compared to PKI, ID)
  - single point of failure/attack (~= scalability)
  - and also slow. (many msg exchanges needed.) = communication overhead.
- Bad about PKE based (X.509)
  - SOX(?) -> big fraud in financial destrict organaizion (US)
  - company cannot maintain the ability to decrypt what was the happening within the company
  - Record all trafiic -> PKI not good for those cases
  - revokation is extremely difficult!
- spy -> how can we revoke?
  - kerberos -> AS stop issuing token
  - PKI -> he already has the certificate -> Then how?!
    - CRL (Certification revokation list) signed by CA
    - broadcast
    - too expensive!!!