# 0310

[Lecture Note 3](../lecture-notes/Lecture%203%20Slides.pdf)

## Formal Definition

- security -> tuple
  - **security guarantee**
  - **adversary assumption**: under specific assumption, we provide this guarantee
  - e.g. 
    - Assume: magnitude <= 7 earthquake
    - Guarantee: nuclear power plant does not collapse
- **security guarantee**
  - Let's see each guarantee is enough or not.
  - e.g. secure encryption
  - First guarantee: "I don't want an attacker obtaining my key" -> to recover the key
  - Then, even without key, attacker doesn't have to obtain the entire plaintext. -> to recover the entire plaintext from the ciphertext
    - e.g. Identity func
  - Then, attacker doesn't have to obtain the "part" of plaintext -> to recover any character of the plaintext from the ciphertext
  - Then, attacker shouldn't know the other information(like length, metadata...) -> to derive any meaningful info about the plaintext from the ciphertext
    - e.g. digit of someone salary
  - Then, to compute any function of the plaintext from the ciphertext (*i.e. semantic security*)
    - **all cryptography primitives should satisfy semantic security**
    - e.g.my algorithm guarantee security guarantee under chosen-ciphertext attack! -> Safe
- **adversary assumption**: how much capabilities that attacker has?
  - attacker obtains WHAT.
    - WHAT = ciphertext, plaintext/ciphertext pairs...
  - increasing power...
  - chosen-plaintext attack: attacker has encryption algorithm.
  - chosen-cipertext attack: attacker has the part of decryption algorithm.

### Ciphertext-only attack (COA)

- attacker has access only to ciphertext
- naive assumption. not valid at all in the real situation

### Known-plaintext attack (KPA)

- attacker access to "some" plaintext and its corresponding ciphertext. 
- Caesar cipher -> if one pair is exposed, then exploited. **Vulnerable to KPA, not robust to KPA**
  - attacker can immediately recover the key from one pair.

### Chosen-Plaintext Attack (CPA)

- collect every plaintext, attacker has encryption function, then frequency analysis -> easily breakable
  - attacker has "encryption oracle"
- attacker can use encryption function almost infinitely.

### Chosen-Ciphertext Attack (CCA)

- most practical algorithm assume this: most powerful
- e.g. email service
  - bob <-> charlie -> suppose trivially secure.
  - bob -> email server, decrypt the msg from alice.
  - email consists of `receiver|msg`
  - if attacker observes ciphertext, and copy and replace the first receiver part to my encryption text -> then the server will send the msg to the attacker.
- **attacker can partially obtain the encryption function**
- e.g.2 
  - bob -> oracle.
  - output can reveal big hint for input plaintext.
    - e.g. valid HTTP packet, valid OCaml code.
    - next hw: implementing this cracking
  - next week... will revisit.

---

[Lecture Note 4](../lecture-notes/Lecture%204%20Slides.pdf)

## Symmetric-key encryption

### Ideal, Perfect encryption scheme

- if we assume unbounded power(attacker can do *anything*), but secure.
- observing ciphertext never affects the probability of knowing plaintext.
  - Even if attacker observes all ciphertext, he should rely on random pick. Best thing to do is random guess.
- Indistinguishable. Perfectly secure. -> Adversary can win the game with a probability of 0.5.

### Vernam Cipher

- satisfies ideal encryption scheme
- encryption/decryption -> use XOR
- `k` is randomly generated. and never used.
- one-time pad: OTP
- but.. hard to achieve purely random
