# 0319

[Lecture Note 4](../lecture-notes/Lecture%204%20Slides.pdf)

## Attack Padding Scheme

- correct padding only has very few number of possibilities
- keep changing the last bytes, and when server says "Valid", there are few possibilities here.
- after all bytes are revealed -> `pi_{k}^{-1}(C_2)` is known ->  we can know the plaintext of last block
- Chaining is not a good idea: operation with private and public data...
- https://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~rosulekm/crypto/padding.html#attack

## CTR (Counter Mode)

- use initial IV (X_0) -> X_i = X_0 + i -> Synchronization counter...
- can parallelize
- X0, P0가 바뀐다면? probabilitic 할까? -> final exam..?
  - 이거 gpt랑 같이 얘기해보자. 저 스킴의 문제가 뭘지

---

[Lecture Note 5](../lecture-notes/Lecture%205%20Slides.pdf)

## Confidentiality vs. Integrity

- Confidentiality -> Encryption scheme
- Integrity -> Authentication scheme

- pg 5 -> False!
  - bank example.
- break integrity
  - CBC: what if change IV? it is public data. 
  - CTR -> change C0
  - So encryption doesn't guarantee integrity!!!

### Checksum

- checksum: small information that proves the data correct
- MAC: Message Authentication Codes

## Authenticated Encryption Scheme

- Attackers shouldn't learn anything about message and cannot modify message
- Encryption scheme(Enc, Dec) + Message authentication code(Mac)
- Many schemes
  - Encrypt-and-authenticate: ciphertext, and `t`(which is result of `Mac(m)`)
    - disadv: Mac is deterministic.
  - Authenticate-then-encrypt: high-level, may/may not be secure. (we will not deal with)
  - **Encrypt-then-authenticate**: mostly used. TLS

## Cryptographic Hash Function

- different between "Hash Function" and "Cryptographic Hash Function"
