# 0423

[Lecture Note 8](../lecture-notes/Lecture%208%20Slides.pdf)

- Capability based -> secure enough

## Trojan Horse

- a type of malware disguisd as legitimate SW
- e.g. prof has enough authority, so automatically run to switch the student2.txt to the solution.
- no access control violation, but sth bad happen...

## Exploitation

- hard to distinguish normal user and TH
- avoiding
  - More restricted AC
  - Program analysis

## Example: Unix File ACL

- owner, group, other
- permission set: {RWX} * {owner, group, other}
- only **owner** and **root** change permissions
- **setuid** field: chmod 4xxx
- e.g. password change
  - you cannot write to password file, but you have to write b/c changing.
  - I want to run some process on behalf of someone else(e.g. root)
  - then how to do?
  - first `a.out` -> your privilege
  - `chmod 4775 a.out` -> if you run a.out after this command, then the process can run on behalf of "my" account.
  - Important file -> all have `setuid` bit.
  - have to be carefully manage EUID.
    - only critical section.
- three IDs for each process
  - **RUID**: which user starts the process
  - **EUID**(Effective): determines the permissions for the process
  - **SUID**(Saved): for restore
  
## More important question (new slide)

- discussed **runtime** monitoring
- but can we prevent the illegal access?: static estimation of access control violation.
- e.g. AWS Zelkova: video link in course website

```
Alice() {
    confer(Read, Attacker, Secret);
}

Bob() {
    confer(Execute, Attacker, Alice);
}
```

- e.g. Alice owns Secret, Bob owns Alice, and Attacker owns Bob.
- Can attacker read Secret?

```
Attacker() {
    exec(Bob)
    exec(Alice)
    read(Secret)
}
```

- from initial access control matrix (Q0), with commands -> is there a sequence of commands that produces a state Q' where a particular right r appears in A[s, o] that did not hae i in Q0?
  - A[s, o]: permissions of subject s on object o
- Static analysis -> make sure that any vulnerability on Access control
  - consider all possibilities.
  - next homework!

## Mandatory Access Control (MAC)

- multilevel secure system
- different security level between users, and also between resources
- pair of level and category(compartment) -> forms a lattice
- Important property -> order must exist.

### BLP (Bell-LaPadula Model)

- main concern: confidentiality
  - e.g. Trojan Horse -> ideally this flow should be prevented.
  - but top secret document can be read by user.
- If we cut any intermediate step, it will be okay
- Good for reporting system
- Bad -> integrity (b/c write up is allowed)

### Biba

- exactly dual of BLP
- no write up
- no read down
- good for notification system

BLP <-> Biba: mutually exclusive