# Reading textbook

## Ch.1 Introduction

## Ch.2 Introduction to Scala

- both functional/object-oriented styles
- functional: program = expression, result = evaluating the expression
  - First-class functions: abstract computation
  - pattern matching: abstract data

## Ch.3 Immutability

- imperative programming uses numerous mutable variables, FP leverages the power of immutable variables.
- adv
  - easier reasoning: immutable objects are **guaranteed**. We don't have to track every line of code.
  - no need for defensive copies: if we want to pass a variable into function, we want the variable to be immutable, so clone this. But for immutability, we don't have to care.
- Recursion has drawback -> and Tail call optimization is given.
  - Tail Call: If the last action of a function is **a function call**.
  - Callee does every computation, caller frame can be destroyed
  
```scala
def factorial(n: Int): Int =
    if (n <= 0)
        1
    else
        n * factorial(n - 1)
```
- This is not a tail call. stack frames should coexist.

```scala
def factorial(n: BigInt, inter: BigInt): BigInt =
    if (n <= 0)
        inter
    else
        factorial(n - 1, inter * n)
```

- This is a tail call optimized. Tail recursive. It's calling itself at the last.
- Programmer can ask the compiler to check whether functions are tail-recursive with annotations: `@tailrec`

## Ch.4 Functions

- first-class:
  - can be an argument of a function call
  - can be a return value of a function
  - a variable can refer to it: in Scala, defined by `def` is not a value
  - higher-order functions: not first-order
    - first-order: neither takes functions as arguments nor return functions
- anonymous functions
- closures: function values that capture environments
- with list
  - `map`
  - `filter`
  - `foldRight`
  - `foldLeft`: tail recursion

## Ch.5 Pattern Matching

- Algebraic Data Types (ADT): a single type often includes values of various shapes.
  - e.g. A list -> empty list/a pair of an element and a list
- variant: one form of values that can be distinguished from the other forms.
- e.g. An arithmetic expression (AE)
  - a number => Int type tagged with Num
  - the sum of two arithmetic expressions => AE * AE type tagged with Add
  - the diff of two arithmetic expressions => AE * AE type tagged with Sub
- Scala provides traits and classes.
  - trait can be used like any other types

```scala
sealed trait AE
case class Num(value: Int) extends AE
case class Add(left: AE, right: AE) extends AE
case class Sub(left: AE, right: AE) extends AE

def eval(e: AE): Int = e match {
    case Num(n) => n
    case Add(l, r) => eval(l) + eval(r)
    case Sub(l, r) => eval(l) - eval(r)
}
```

```scala
sealed trait List[+A]
case object Nil extends List[Nothing]
case class ::[A](head: A, tail: List[A]) extends List[A]
```

- without match, we have to use `isInstanceOf` or `asInstanceOf` things.
- match should be exhaustive. -> `sealed` modifier is necessary.
- pattern guards

```scala
sealed trait Tree
case object Empty extends Tree
case class Node(root: Int, left: Tree, right: Tree) extends Tree
```

`add` function needs `if-else`: but it can be expressed like:
```scala
def add(t: Tree, n: Int): Tree =
    t match {
        case Empty => Node(n, Empty, Empty)
        case Node(m, t0, t1) if n < m =>
            Node(m, add(t0, n), t1)
        case Node(m, t0, t1) if n > m =>
            Node(m, t0, add(t1, n))
        case _ => t
    }
```
- Warning: pattern guards can be inexhaustive.

- backticks: `remove` function

```scala
def removeMin(t: Node): (Int, Tree) = {
    t match {
        case Node(n, Empty, t1) =>
            (n, t1)
        case Node(n, t0: Node, t1) =>
            val (min, t2) = removeMin(t0)
            (min, Node(n, t2, t1))
    }
}

def remove(t: Tree, n: Int): Tree = {
    t match {
        case Empty => 
            Empty
        // case Node(m, t0, Empty) if n == m =>
        case Node(`n`, t0, Empty) =>
            t0
        // case Node(m, t0, t1: Node) if n == m =>
        case Node(`n`, t0, t1: Node) =>
            val res = removeMin(t1)
            val min = res._1
            val t2 = res._2
            Node(min, t0, t2)
        case Node(m, t0, t1) if n < m =>
            Node(m, remove(t0, n), t1)
        case Node(m, t0, t1) if n > m =>
            Node(m, t0, remove(t1, n))
    }
}
```

- Options: widely-used ADT
  - we can simply raise exception, but it has several problems
  - 1. exceptions should be handled, unless you want to face run-time error
  - 2. exepction handling is not local
```scala
sealed trait Option[+A]
case object None extends Option[Nothing]
case class Some[A](value: A) extends Option[A]
```

## Ch.6 Syntax and Semantics

- parsing: string -> tree
- concrete syntax: determines whether a certain string is a program or not
  - set P: the set of every program.
  - but how can we enumerate every element of an **infinite set**? -> **Backus-Naur Form (BNF)**
- abstract syntax: complementary with concrete syntax

# Lectures

## Syntax

- plz don't use break, while, mutation. we don't need
- why pattern matching is better then if-else?
  - if-else: error prone. compiler can catch error in pattern matching
- Type Checking:
  - `expr.left.num` -> this should be an error

- programming language = syntax + semantics
- let's play with tiny language.

```plaintext
expr ::= num
      | "(" expr "+" expr ")"
      | "(" expr "-" expr ")"
```

vs.

```plaintext
expr ::= num
      | "{" "+" expr expr  "}"
      | "{" "-" expr expr  "}"
```

- concrete syntax: superficial outfits = how it looks like
  - we can use `{` instead of `(`.
  - we can use prefix instead of infix
- But they both represent same thing.

```plaintext
Add
| \
Num Num
```
-> Abstract syntax: in Scala, we represent with trait and class.
- Parser: a function that takes a program in **concrete syntax** and produce same thing in **abstract syntax**.
  - parsing error: if it is not a valid concrete syntax

## Semantics

- Operational semantics: a method of defining the meaning of programs by describing the actions carried out during a program's execution 
  - we're gonna focus on `big-step` semantics (a.k.a natural semantics)
  - we can **clearly**, **precisely** specify a programming language
  - proving correctness of a compiler
- inference rules: 
  - premise(or hypothesis) / conclusion
  - one horizontal bar