# 0523

## Parametric Polymorphism

- infer parameter type by later usage
- if we use "if" and put different paramter, but it could be perfectly good. -> Polymorphism (there are multiple shapes.)
- we get "type parameter", so make function as "polymorphic".
  - using BIG lambda.
  
### TPolyFAE

- two new expression and two new types
- we also use "for all".
- first, alpha should be NEW.

## Subtype Polymorphism

- multiple value -> we make record.
- TrecFAE (TFAE with record)
- our type system now not allow the record. (not type soundness)
  - if parameter type is {a: num}, but what if the argumentis {a = 1, b = 2}? -> it doesn't cause runtime error but type system rejects
  - That's where subtype polymorphism comes into play.
- if any value of type can replace any occurrence of a value of other type
  - reflexive and transitive
- how about recursive record? -> add new rule.
  - if every label has subtype relation -> then whole type has subtype relation
- how about different order? record is kind of set.
  - add permutation rule.
- subtype for arrow types
  - KRW -> USD is a subtype of KRW -> (USD or EUR)
  - return type has subtyping relation and parameter have same type -> then arrow type also subtype relation
  - return type same, and parameter type subtype relation -> then reverse subtype relation
- subtype for top type
  - Top: including any value as its member. anytype is **subtype** of Top type.
  - identity function -> we can say parameter x is Top type.
  - how about parametric polymorphism -> more information then Top -> Top.
- subtype for bottom type
  - Bottom: dual of Top.
  - subtype of anything.
  - no value of Bottom type -> for exception/return type of contiuation
    - NULL이랑 비슷한건가?
  - 