# 0226

- system consists of components
- identify system level functionalities and break down them into component-level + connection btw components
- Questions
  - Do all programs need to be modified for different hardware?
  - Should each programmer write their own version of common system functionalities?
  - Can a faulty program crash the entire system?
  - Should every program have unrestricted access to all hardware?

### What is OS

- Users
- Hardware
- Application programs
- **Operating system**: controls and coordinates use of hardware among various applications and users (intermediary)
  - Like government
  - as a Facilitator: provide useful abstractions
    - but this can be available at application layer
  - as a **Traffic Cop**: control, manage resources, resolve conflicts
    - guarantee correct execution
  - e.g. user doesn't have to understand the internal structure, just save a data on a file.

### Computer-System Organization

- Device Driver (DD) is smarter scheme that makes device manafacturer develops their own DD. OS developers should not think of for every combination of devices
  - Potential issue: CPU waits data to be put into buffer in device, but CPU is very expensive resource
  - This issue -> introduing **interrupt**: needs immediate attention
- Interrupt-driven I/O Operation
  - device controller tells CPU by interrupt line
  - CPU gets interrupted, see the interrupt line, see interrupt vector table, get address of keyboard device driver, and then jump to the address and execute.
- CPU also raises(generates) an interrupt to OS == **trap** == **exception**


- What if some applications have device driver, so wants to delete a file?
  - CPU should prevent this
  - instructions from App -> not allow, but how?
  - Introduce one layer -> add **system mode**.
- Dual mode
  - Kernel (supervisor) mode: OS is running
  - User mode: App is running