# 0305

[Lecture Note 2](../lecture-notes/2.%20Computer%20Organization.pdf)

## Protection Mechanisms

- allow/disallow **privileged instructions**
  - e.g. I/O instructions, halt, reset, mask interrupts, set interval timer, 
modify page table registers
- CPU can make decision.
  - CPU has a mode for OS/App
  - Consider **Dual Mode**: Supervisor (Kernel) / User
- S mode -> all insts are executed
- U mode -> cannot run privileged instructions
- Do we have instruction that changes U -> S? -> **No**.
  - Do any program allowed to execute it? -> **No**.
- Then, how S mode can be re-entered?
  - **Interrupt**: interact with HW
  - **Trap**: raised by CPU -> whenever see some illegal instruction
    - div by zero, invalid access to memory
  - **System Calls**: User App may want to access to I/O, will make a system call. Interact with User App.
    - Can include Data

### System Calls

- Programming Interface provided by OS
  - in many case we access through API
  - Why?: **diff OS has diff syscalls**/hiding details
- Passing parameter 
  - simplest: by registers
  - store data as a **block**, register will have the memory of the block
  - by **stack**

---

[Lecture Note 3](../lecture-notes/03-process.pdf)

- we have to identify the performance **bottleneck** to enhance the performance
- main bottleneck at the first was processor, but now **I/O** is bottleneck
- How can we conquer
  - **multi-programming** -> more that one programs at a time.
  - cache

## Multiprogramming

- challenges
  - virtual machine abstraction
  - resources conflict 
  - protection
  - concurrency
- notion of **processes**: unit of execution and allocation
  - program vs. process
    - recipe: written program itself, cooking: execution
    - provided that two chefs are working, but how can we make a illusion of using the kitchen alone?
    - context should be remained for each chef
      - define context, and name it **process**
      - **Process Control Block (PCB)** is a snapshot of the machine
      - keep tracking resources of the machine
    - Or, two chefs want to collaborate?
      - -> multiple **thread**s in a same process.
- and also **threads** and **address spaces**

## Processes

- program (set of instructions) + resources (memory + I/O state) + CPU state (PC/registers)
- each process has its **own** view of machine
  - address space: virtual memory
    - virtual memory dedicated to certain process
    - each process can assume that memory starts from **zero** address.
    - each variable in a program -> has address, but it is all different to processes.
    - how memory consists of
      - text: program (code) 
      - data: global variables
      - heap: grow upward -> dynamically allocated
      - stack: grow downward -> local variables