# 0409

[Lecture Note 7](../lecture-notes/07-memory-management.pdf)

- CPU is transforming the state by executing instructions
  - memory -> keeps(stores) working state of process
  - protection = no.1 factor to be considered.
- important aspects: sharing with isolation, protection, transparency, efficiency

## Transparency

- process can be allocated anywhere; but can't predict
  - user, and even developer don't care where the program is loaded
- relocate: when?
  - compile time -> not feasible. since process can be allocated anywhere.
  - load time: we know the starting address (base address) of this process
    - long loading time. change all memory address properly
  - execution time: (memory access time)
    - logical address => actual(physical) address
    - we need one more layer -> MMU (additional, small hardware)
    - OS cannot do this.
    - program use virtual(logical) address, hardware use physical(real) address. Address space = each process's view point of memory
- mmu has two register
  - base register: starting address of memory alloc
  - limit register: length of memory alloc
  - 1. logical address should not exceed the limit.
  - 2. Plus with base register = physical address
- then how to manage base/limit register?
  - OS should change only.
  - whenever context switch
- select which "hole" to be allocated
  - first-fit / best-fit / worst-fit
  - first-fit/best-fit : comparable performance b/c we cannot really know how much it is needed.
  - fragmentation
    - external
    - internal - paging
  - we can do some compaction -> combine hole to deal with external fragmentation
  - also swapping