# 0514

[Lecture Note 10](../lecture-notes/10-file-systems-2.pdf)

- target for file system: symbolic name -> real internal structure of disk
- PCB(Partition): we need metadata for the partition
- FCB(File): we also need metadata for each file.
- directory ~= page table.
  - index block ~= inode in UNIX

[image](./images/IMG_6342.HEIC)


- first i-node of root (FCB, orange)
  - PCB includes the address of inode of root.
- we want to find directory table includes "users"
  - It is stored in the data block.
  - file -> data block will contain the content
  - directory -> data block will include directory table
  - table is not always in the first block -> just assumption.
- for 1kb -> saved on a single block.

## Haystack

Facebook -> developed the small file system to store photos.
- OSDI/SOSP - two best 학회

- fault-tolerant: 20k hard disk means 20 disk can fail.
- web server doesn't provide all images: cdn will provide images
- photo albums -> not frequent access, long tail.
- how long should CDN hold the images from Facebook?
  - CDN for facebook only 80% hit rate... 20% will be forwarded to Facebook
- old design - performance quite low.
  - much longer time because they normally access metadata too much, not actual content.
  - developed own system call: open_by_filehandle
    - we need large cache.
  - can we make all the disk access to only the file content?
- indexed allocation is better? that may not be true for certain situation
  - images do not grow.
  - if we do not delete a file -> we don't have problem for fragmentation.
    - even user deletes, but price of disk is very cheap
  - **use contiguous allocation!!!**
  - also, directory table -> user wants to use symbolic name.
  - do user use symbolic name for photo? -> NO.
- so they designed their own system.
- superblock / needles
  - contiguous allocation
- developed cache with offset
  - only one disk access
- advanced system can be harmful for performace...!

---

[Lecture Note 9](../lecture-notes/09-file-systems.pdf)

- open file: what is done?
- translate file name into own id(e.g. inode number)
- merge file system == **mount**. (and **umount**)