# 0519

[Lecture Note 11](../lecture-notes/11-mass-storage.pdf)

## Hard Disk

- Consist
  - consists of platter, platter consist of track, track consist of sector.
  - disk arm -> rotate and read/write data
    - move all arm if we want to only move one arm.
    - same position on different platter
  - sector: smallest unit of accessing the hard disk.
  - cylinder: multiple surface, touched by disk arm at once.
- disk i/o process -> seek time/rotational latency/transfer time
  - latency: queue time + controller time + seek time + rot time + transfer time
  - seek time -> pessimistic side 5~10 ms.
  - rot time -> depends on rotation speed (3600 - 7200 RPM = 8 - 16 ms/rotation)
  - transfer time -> function of transfer size (how big the sector is)
    - transfer size: 512B - 1KB/sector
  - e.g. avg seek time = 5ms, rot time = 7200 RPM = 8ms/rotation, transfer rate 4 MB/s, sector size 1 KB
    - Read random place: seek (5ms) + Rot.delay (4ms) + Transfer (0.25 ms = 1k/4M)
      - 10ms to fetch/put data = 100 KB/s
    - Read sector for same cylinder = (x seek time) + rot.delay (4m) + Transfer (0.25ms)
      - 5ms -> performance double: 200 KB/s
    - Read next sector -> only transfer time = Transfer rate (4 MB/s)
  - Thus, we should minimize seek and rot.delay.

## Disk Scheduling

- disk scheduling
  - only one request at a time -> how can we order?
  - FIFO
    - cons: very long seek
  - Shorest Seek Time First (SSTF)
    - pick request that's closest to the head on the disk
    - request queue: 2 - 1 - 3 - 6 - 2 - 5, head: 5
    - scheduling: 5 - 6 - 3 - 2 - 2 - 1
    - reduce seek time / but lead to starvation (~= SJF in process scheduling)
  - SCAN
    - ~= Elevator algorithm
    - closest request in the direction of travel
    - request queue: 2 - 1 - 3 - 6 - 2 - 5, head: 5, direction: towards center
    - scheduling: 5 - 3 - 2 - 2 - 1 - 6
    - no starvation, low seek / favor middle track
  - C-SCAN
    - circular-SCAN, only one direction. keeps same direction.
    - request queue: 2 - 1 - 3 - 6 - 2 - 5, head: 5, direction: edge to center
    - scheduling order: 5 - 6 - 1 - 2 - 2 - 3
    - fair than SCAN / longer seeks on the way back

## Solid State Disks (SSDs)

- no seek/rot delay
- also lower power, lightweight, smaller, quiet, stable (shock insensitive)
- **page** -> smallest unit to access inside SSD
- reading similar to memory read (allows random access) = 25 microsec
- transfer time -> limited by controller and disk interfcae
- write is complex
  - can only write new data into empty page.
  - important to manage a pool of empty page. better to reserve some portion of capacity as empty
  - writes 10x more expensive than reads, erases 10x more expensive than writes

## Quiz 12.3

Q1 - False -> "Sector" is the smallest addressable unit / "Page" is the smallest unit for SSD
Q2 - True -> SSD has zero seek time
Q3 - True
Q4 - False
Q5 - 8 4 2 1